docs/contributing/config.md, before:

# Config

TBD. This document should go into more details about various Outpost configuration.

## MQs

TBD

## OpenTelemetry

To support OpenTelemetry, you must have this env `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`. Its value is your service name when sending to OTEL. You can use whichever value you see fit.

In production, if Outpost is run as a singular service, then the service name can be `outpost`. If Outpost is run in multiple processes (for API, delivery, log, etc.), you can provide more granularity by including the service type such as `outpost.api` or `outpost.delivery`, etc. Ultimately, it's up to the end users which value they want to see in their telemetry data.

Besides `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`, we support the official [OpenTelemetry Environment Variable Specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/).

With OTEL, there are 3 telemetry data: traces, metrics, and logs. By default, Outpost will export all of them. You can provide a generic `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` in that case.

If you don't want to receive all telemetry, you must specify which data to receive by specifying the exporter URL individually. For example, if you only want to receive only traces & metrics:

✅ you MUST specify `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT` and `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT`
❌ you MUST not provide `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` nor `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT`

Commit message:

refactor: OTEL & setup OTEL collector & improve Docker DX (#166)
* refactor: Change OTEL config to rely on SDK default behavior

* chore: Support otel stdout exporters

* chore: Compose yml cleanup

* build: Cache Go deps in volume to speed up container restart

* build: OTel Collector config for Uptrace

* docs: Update OTEL setup documentation

* chore: Update OTEL config in .env.example

docs/contributing/config.md, after:

# Config

TBD. This document should go into more details about various Outpost configuration.

## MQs

TBD

## OpenTelemetry

To support OpenTelemetry, you must have this env `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`. Its value is your service name when sending to OTEL. You can use whichever value you see fit.

In production, if Outpost is run as a singular service, then the service name can be `outpost`. If Outpost is run in multiple processes (for API, delivery, log, etc.), you can provide more granularity by including the service type such as `outpost.api` or `outpost.delivery`, etc. Ultimately, it's up to the end users which value they want to see in their telemetry data.

Besides `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`, we support the official [OpenTelemetry Environment Variable Specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/).

To specify the exporter endpoint, you can use `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` or individual exporters such as `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT`, `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT`, or `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT`.

By default, Outpost will export all Telemetry data. You can disable specific telemetry by setting its exporter to `none`. For example, if you only want to receive traces & metrics:

```
OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER="otlp" # default
OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER="otlp" # default
OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="none" # disable logs
```

Currently, we only support `otlp` exporter. If you have specific needs for other exporter configuration (like Prometheus), you must set up your own OTEL collector and configure it accordingly.
